>> Mike North: So the last thing we're
gonna tackle here is when to use generics.
It's a really, really powerful idea.
But people who run into trouble with types
that begin to explode in complexity,
often that comes from
overzealous use of generics.
And I would also be careful
reading Blog articles.
And question the information
that you see out there.
Because this is one thing that
a lot of content gets wrong.
>> Mike North: I wanna show
you a bad example here.
>> Mike North: So
we've got an interface called shape.
It has a method on it called draw.
Circle extends from shape,
circle has a radius.
So here, we're saying draw shapes.
And we have a type parameter
where S must extend shape.
And we take in an array of S's, and
we iterate over each of those and draw.
Here is another implementation
that just uses a base class here.
So generics are great for
relating two things.
I take in an array of t, and
I give you back a dictionary of t.
The generic, that type parameter,
is what ties those two together.
You give me strings,
I give you back strings, right?
Here, we're only using
this type parameter once.
And you can always eliminate
a type parameter that's used once.
There's a convention that
people like to use where,
I don't disagree with it as much.
Where they'll, for convenience,
use a generic for a type assertion.
For example,
they'll wrap fetch in a function and
allow you to pass a type parameter
indicating the structure of the response.
Okay, I mean,
you could certainly eliminate it, right?
But there is some
convenience factor there.
This kind of thing that you're
looking at in front of you,
there's no convenience here.
This is just unnecessary abstraction.
But what this does show us,
it is useful for one thing.
It does show us that
specifying this type here,
that's what allows us to
access this method draw.
This gets us the same thing as this.
So constraints on type parameters
are equivalent to specifying the type on
an argument, in that it dictates what you
can do within the function on s, right?
In both cases, we've got dot draw,
dot draw, right?
Up here, it's coming from this.
Down here, it's coming from that.
>> Mike North: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So on line 121,
if shape was not an interface and
it was a type alias, would it not work?
>> Mike North: It will be fine, I think.
Type shape equals this.
Yep, no problem.
This is the, we're in the very
large amount of overlap where
there's no real downside to
choosing one of the other.
>> Speaker 2: Sure, well, I guess I'm
just confused on why on line 121,
if you're passing in shapes and
they have radius, wouldn't that error?
Because it's just expecting
something with only draw.
>> Mike North: Can you articulate
why you would expect it to error so
I can answer that question?
>> Speaker 2: Well, yeah,
so because the interface,
something implements an interface,
but it could have other attributes.
>> Mike North: Totally.
>> Speaker 2: With a type alias,
isn't that like a strict definition?
It has to have this stuff, and
if you pass a circle in to draw shapes to,
and you're only telling it I want a shape,
wouldn't it also expect a radius?
>> Mike North: If I was
demanding circle here, yeah,
I would say this is an overly
>> Mike North: This is asking for
too much,
in that I don't need radius down here.
I have access to radius now.
If I needed this, I would demand circles.
I would say you've gotta pass me circles.
The rule I like to follow is you ask for
only what you need and
you return everything you can.
So you ask for only what you need so
that you can use this with square and
triangle and 2D point,
which is just gonna have an X and Y.
If that's gonna work,
if it's all up to the draw function,
then you need no further details.
This is your minimum requirement,
and you can stick with that.
Now, on the other hand,
if you're returning something,
you want your consumers to be able to
access all of the richness of this
object to whatever degree is safe.
So let's say we had multiple types of
collections, like a list, an array,
which extends list, a linked list.
If array and linked list have special
methods on them, there's no reason for
me to kind of give you back
a very low level base class.
That would prevent you from
safely accessing to reach
functionality underneath.
So ask for only what you need,
return everything you can.
Yes, sir?
>> Speaker 3: So
the two functions are equivalent, then?
But you're saying the top one
is just overkill on the generic?
>> Mike North: They're equivalent, and
they will compile to exactly the same
thing, aside from
the name of the function.
>> Speaker 3: Could you give an example
where you would actually want to do the-
>> Mike North: Absolutely, how about this?
>> Mike North: Let me think for a moment.
An example where the type
parameter would be necessary?
>> Speaker 3: Where you'd actually
want to use it on the generic.
>> Mike North: Yeah, okay, here we go.
>> Mike North: So
I'd have to involve something else.
Sorry, that's not true.
>> Mike North: That's Boolean.
I'd have to introduce a second
use of this type parameter.
For example,
return an array of these things.
And I'd say map, and
>> Mike North: S is drawn true.
Return s.
>> Mike North: So now,
let's see, why is this unhappy?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Thank you.
>> Mike North: Okay, so now, the fact
that I'm using this in two places,
this serves a purpose.
Without this, even if I just
were to say it return shape,
we have a significant downside.
In that, if I were to try to say
drawShapes1 and pass an array of circles.
>> Mike North: There is my circle.
What don't you like there?
Radius is a number.
>> Mike North: I'd have to
be explicit about this.
It already is saying this is
an unknown property on shape.
I could create this outside.
>> Mike North: And now, it'll be happy.
But now, I'm in a situation where
if I wanted to chain off of that,
I have reduced this down
to an array of shapes.
I don't have an array of circles anymore.
I didn't get out what I passed in,
I got out the lowest common
thing that the function needed.
Whereas if we return an array of s's,
now radius is present.
>> Speaker 3: If we pass in circles,
you're gonna get circles back.
We pass in squares,
we get the squares back.
>> Mike North: And
you can see it right in the tool tip.
See how all of the s's
have changed to circle?
The blank has been filled
in at this call site.
And this is where type parameter
would get you something.
In that drawShapes does not care
about the particulars of the shape.
But what it will do is give
you back what you passed in.
>> Mike North: Or I could return a promise
that resolves to s or something.
But the key is, I've introduced
a second use of the type parameter.
And that makes this generic worthwhile.
Now, the type parameter is describing a
relationship between arguments and return.
And for like classes, you could say
I take in this in my constructor,
and that method returns this type.
There are many more opportunities
with this classes because you have so
many different parts to them, right?
But you gotta be able to point to two.
If you can't do that,
you may just be using a type parameter
as sort of an assertion, right?
Or you're saying give this
back to me as a string.
Give this back to me as an array.
That's not the same thing.
That's not what type parameters
are typically used for.